website/docs/components/checkbox/checkbox-a11y.md, before:

---
title: A11y
---

@## Keyboard support

| Key     | Function                                               |
| ------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `Tab`   | Moves keyboard focus to the checkbox.                  |
| `Space` | Toggles checkbox between checked and unchecked states. |

@## Attributes and elements

| Role     | Attribute      | Element | Usage                                                                                                                        |
| -------- | -------------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| checkbox |                | `div`   | Identifies the div element as a checkbox. The child text content of this `div` provides the accessible name of the checkbox. |
|          | `tabindex="0"` | `div`   | Includes the checkbox in the page `Tab` sequence.                                                                            |

@## Other recommendations

See more accessibility recommendations in the common [Accessibility guide](/core-principles/a11y/).

@## Resources

[W3 checkbox example and documentation](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/examples/checkbox/checkbox-1/checkbox-1.html) has detailed information about the accordion accessible behavior.

Commit message:

[A11y] Add info to the components

website/docs/components/checkbox/checkbox-a11y.md, after:

---
title: A11y
---

@## Keyboard support

| Key     | Function                                               |
| ------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `Tab`   | Moves keyboard focus to the checkbox.                  |
| `Space` | Toggles checkbox between checked and unchecked states. |

@## Roles and attributes

The list below will help you to keep in mind the necessary roles and attributes to make our components fully accessible in your interfaces.

| Role     | Attribute              | Element | Usage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| -------- | ---------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| group    |                        | `div`   | Identifies the `div` element as a group container for the checkboxes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| checkbox |                        | `div`   | Identifies the div element as a checkbox. The child text content of this `div` provides the accessible name of the checkbox.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|          | `tabindex="0"`         | `div`   | Includes the checkbox in the page `Tab` sequence.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|          | `aria-checked="false"` | `div`   | Indicates the `checkbox` is not checked. CSS attribute selectors (e.g. [`aria-checked="false"`]) are used to synchronize the visual states with the value of the `aria-checked` attribute. To support operating system and browser high contrast settings, the CSS `::before` pseudo element and `content` property are used to generate the visual indicators of the checkbox state. |
|          | `aria-checked="true"`  | `div`   | Indicates the `checkbox` is checked. CSS attribute selectors (e.g. [`aria-checked="true"`]) are used to synchronize the visual states with the value of the `aria-checked` attribute. To support operating system and browser high contrast settings, the CSS `::before` pseudo element and `content` property are used to generate the visual indicators of the checkbox state.      |

@## Resources

- [W3 checkbox example](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/examples/checkbox/checkbox-1/checkbox-1.html) has detailed information about the accordion accessible behavior.
- [A11y style guide](https://a11y-style-guide.com/style-guide/section-forms.html#kssref-forms-checkboxes) gives core recommendations for the accessible checkboxes.

@## Other recommendations

See more accessibility recommendations in the common [Accessibility guide](/core-principles/a11y/).
