---
title: Development requirements
---

@## Language attribute

The language attribute declaration in HTML allows screen readers to read the text on the page with the correct pronunciation.

Specify the language using the `lang` attribute inside the element `html lang="en"`.

@## Document structure

Use semantic headings and structure the page logically.

### Element roles on the page

Most of the HTML elements already have default roles and do not need a role attribute. That is, if you're using native HTML elements, you usually don't need to assign a specific role to them. Refer to the [Document conformance requirements for use of ARIA attributes in HTML](https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aria/#docconformance) section of the ARIA specification for a full list of HTML elements and their implicit roles.

In case you are using a non-native element, be sure to assign a `role` attribute to it, depending on its function in the interface, so screen readers can tell the user which part of the interface they are in.

**Notes to consider:**

- The area of ​​the page that contains information about the site should be wrapped in the `header` tag.
- Areas with links to different pages of the site, application screens or sections of the same document must be wrapped in the `nav` tag.
- Use the `main` tag to wrap the main content of the document. This tag should only be used once per page.
- Use the `article` tag for independent content items. Screen readers can follow these tags when navigating through sections.
- Use the `aside` tag to wrap blocks visually separated from the main content but associated with it.
- The area that contains information about the document (copyright, meta information, company information, etc.) must be wrapped in the `footer` tag.
- For the [main search block](https://adrianroselli.com/2015/08/where-to-put-your-search-role.html), use `form role="search"`.
- When using the `abbr` tag, note that most screen readers do not read the `title` attribute of the `abbr` element, only the child text. The tooltip generated by the `title` attribute is also inaccessible from the keyboard, which could impact keyboard-only users. Thus, it's recommended to expand abbreviations as visible text on the page.

> If there are multiple zones with `role` equal to `navigation` or `complementary` on the same page, use the `aria-label` attribute to describe their purpose in a text caption.
>
> Section elements that have an accessible name have the region role by default (otherwise they have no default role). Refer to ["Using the region role to identify a region of the page" technique](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/aria/ARIA20.html) for more details.
>
> Note that there's no point adding `aria-label` attributes to non-semantic elements (for example, `span`).

@## Controls and inputs

Controls and inputs should support navigation using a keyboard, touch devices and voice assistants.

- Make sure that controls and inputs have a recognizable `focus` state.
- Make sure that interactive elements are easy to recognize.
- Use ["Skip to main content"](https://www.a11yproject.com/posts/2013-05-11-skip-nav-links/) links.

In the case when you need to create a visually hidden element that should be read only by screen reader, use the following CSS:

```CSS
position: absolute;
top: auto;
overflow: hidden;
clip: rect(1px, 1px, 1px, 1px);
width: 1px;
height: 1px;
white-space: nowrap;
```

@## Forms

Make sure that your markup and keyboard focus order are consistent and logical.

- Bind `label` to all form controls (input, select and others). For example:

```html
<label for='name'>Name:</label>
<input id='name' type='text'>
```

- Make sure that the `placeholder` attribute is not used in place of the `label` tag. Refer to [WHATWG](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/input.html#attr-input-placeholder) to learn more. All form fields should have valid labels that do not rely on placeholder text. In the case of a search field, a magnifying glass icon can serve the purpose of a visual label, as long as the search input still has a programmatic label that is not derived from placeholder text.
- Groups of form elements (for example, checkboxes and radio buttons) must be combined by `fieldset` and described in `legend`. It's important for `input type="radio"` and `input type="checkbox"`. Fieldsets and legends can also be used to group sets of related inputs, and they should be used when there are multiple fields with the same label. _For example, fields for a shipping address can be distinguished from fields for a billing address by grouping them in fieldsets with distinct labels._

@## Dynamic content (live regions)

When content on a webpage updates without needing to refresh the page, it's called dynamic content. This could be a region or a widget. If the change is simple and not interactive, it should be labeled as a live region using the `aria-live` attribute.

Dynamic content usually includes:

- chats;
- progress bars and timers;
- news and weather widgets;
- various errors and notifications: new messages, likes, subscriptions;
- tickers (stock market information, exchange rates);
- sports stats;
- other similar elements.

Live regions need to exist in the DOM from the initial page load. And they should not be overused. There should not be too many live regions within a single page, and the content within a live region should be short. Live regions should not be used for entire sections of content.

To mark an area that has dynamic content, use the ARIA attribute `aria-live=""` with a special ARIA role, you can learn more about in the section below.

> It's recommended being careful with using redundant attributes like `role="alert"` with `aria-live="assertive"`. These roles are very well supported without the redundant aria-live attributes, and in some cases using the redundant attributes may do more harm than good.

### ARIA roles

| ARIA role   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Alert**   | A type of interactive area that contains information that is important at a particular point in time. It can be an error message or a warning that appears on the screen after some user action or without the user's involvement (a server error, for example). For maximum compatibility, use `role="alert"` in conjunction with the `aria-live="assertive"` attribute. This will prompt the screen reader to announce the change immediately.     |
| **Status**  | Areas with this role contain additional information that is not particularly important and describes the status of changes (for example, a status bar). It can be information about a successful or unsuccessful user action, an error, or that the user needs to wait for a process to complete. `Role="status"` has built-in behavior for the `aria-live="polite"` attribute, and it's recommended to use them together for maximum compatibility. |
| **Log**     | A type of interactive area that contains logs. For example, chat history, a list of errors, or similar information. Note that for logs, the order in which the information is presented is very important. It's recommended to use the `role="log"` role in combination with the `aria-live="polite"` attribute.                                                                                                                                     |
| **Marquee** | This type of area contains information that changes rapidly. This role is similar to `log`, but in this case, the order in which the information is updated does not matter. Good examples of where you can use `role="marquee"` are tickers and currency rates. It's recommended to use the `role="marquee"` role in combination with the `aria-live="off"` attribute.                                                                              |
| **Timer**   | This role is needed for areas with counters that count down time in a normal and reverse order. The `role="timer"` element should have the `aria-live="off"` attribute for full compatibility with all devices and browsers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

@## Non-text content (images, media)

### General requirements

- Images should be described in text in such a way that screen reader can adequately describe the content of the picture. Use appropriate `alt` text. Alternative text can be as long as it needs to be in order to sufficiently describe the image, but it's recommended to keep it concise and not too long for better user experience.
- Provide a text alternative to the audio content.
- Add names to all elements of controls and information entry (such as `Search` or `Submit`).
- Synchronize subtitles with audio in videos content.
- When you have forms that include tests, provide a brief description at the start explaining the type of test and possible outcomes.
- Don't autoplay audio.
- Avoid [pictures and icons in pseudo-elements](http://simplyaccessible.com/article/three-pitfalls-text-alternatives/).

### Decorative elements

Elements that are purely decorative and don't have any meaning in the user interface - such as background images, icons, and dividers - don't require a text alternative.

To exclude specific images, leave their `alt` attribute blank and screen readers will ignore them instead of trying to read the filename.

### Complex images and visualization

Complex visualization presented in the form of charts, maps, and others formats, should include a textual representation of the data. This could be in separate paragraphs or tables that are easily accessible to all users, or in some cases, hidden from sighted users.

### Useful links

To write effective alternative text and decide whether or not an image requires a text alternative, check out these resources:

- [The W3C Web Accessibility Initiative Images Tutorial](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/images/)
- [The W3C Web Accessibility Initiative alt Decision Tree](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/images/decision-tree/)
